Metadata for files in this directory.

4ug0.cif
Downloaded from PDB https://files.rcsb.org/download/4UG0.cif by Andy Turner on 2026-04-24

6xu8.cif
Downloaded from PDB https://files.rcsb.org/download/6XU8.cif by Andy Turner on 2026-04-24

gui_rrna_alignment.xlsx
From Bulat Fatkhullin uploaded to Ribocode Slack gui channel (https://slolagroup.slack.com/files/U085FCL7BV1/F08LQ9GUSEP/gui_rrna_alignment.xlsx) 2025-04-03

gui_rrna_alignment.csv
CSV format version of gui_rrna_alignment.xlsx

Gene_Family_Species_with_evidence.csv
From Alan Beavan sent by email 2025-08-15
A list of the ribosomal protein families with at least one pair of paralogs present that evolved under enhanced positive selection

mapping_with_colour_animal.txt
Uploaded to the Sharepoint (https://leeds365.sharepoint.com/sites/RiboCodesLoLa22/GUI/Forms/AllItems.aspx) by Alan Beavan and mentioned in email 2025-01-08
Colour theme data
1. mapping_with_colour_animal - a list of ribosomal proteins, the number of duplication events inferred in their history within animals, and a colour value on a scale of blue to orange proportional to that value. The proteins are labelled according to:
2. 4ug0-assembly1.cif – a human ribosome just like the Drosophila one Bulat put on. I offer this one as an alternative just because I used it to make my own figure in pymol, the result of which can be found in
3. human.pse – a pymol file with the colours modified according to the first file described here, a snapshot of which can be seen in
4. human_blue_orange.png – an image of the produced from this pymol stuff.
Obviously, you can use the structure Bulat uploaded, but you’d have to change the chain names. It’s something for you to play around with at least. I can provide more of this sort of thing if you like.

RP_name_table.csv
From Alan Beavan sent by email 2025-03-20
Dictionary
A table with all the ribosomal protein families and their names in the 4 model organisms human, fly, yeast, Arabidopsis.
A table with the new name (e or u + S or L + a number), their old name in yeast and human, and the names in my dataset of their members in those 4 species. (This includes some paralogs which might not be included in the ribosome in any form).

model_organism_alignments.tar.gz
From Alan Beavan sent by email 2025-03-20
Alignment data 
A trimmed alignment for each family with only sequences from each. The fields are comma separated and the gene names within the last 4 fields are “;” separated.

RP_name_table_uniprot.csv
From Alan Beavan sent by email 2026-06-05
Dictionary 
Generated by taking a table featuring gene names and converting them to uniprot IDs using biomart (https://grch37.ensembl.org/info/data/biomart/index.html).

dict_all.txt
From Alan Beavan sent by email 2026-06-05
Dictionary
Full translation 
Generated by taking a table featuring gene names and converting them to uniprot IDs using biomart (https://grch37.ensembl.org/info/data/biomart/index.html).
